Update 05.model-complexity.md (#192)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/07.prior-knowledge.md

Rare disease researchers can repurpose general (i.e., not rare disease-specific) biological or chemical knowledge graphs to answer rare disease-based research questions [@doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041]. 
There are a variety of tactics to sift through the large amounts of complex data in knowledge graphs.
One such tactic is to calculate the distances between nodes of interest (e.g., diseases and drugs to identify drugs for repurposing in rare disease [@doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041]); this is often done by determining the "embeddings" (linear representations of the position and connections of a particular point in the graph) for nodes in the knowledge graph, and calculating the similarity between these embeddings. 
Testing a variety of methods different methods to calculate node embeddings that can generate actionable insights for rare diseases is an active area of research [@doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041], and an opportunity for continued research.

> Another application of KGs that has been previously described is to augment or refine a dataset [@doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0752-9, doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0938-1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another application of KGs is to augment or refine a dataset [@doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0752-9, doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0938-1].
```

> For example, Li, et. al.[@doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0938-1] used a KG to identify linked terms in a medical corpus from a large number of patients, some with rare disease diagnoses .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Li, et. al.[@doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0938-1] used a KG to identify linked terms in a medical corpus from a large number of patients, some with rare disease diagnoses.
```

> They were able to augment their text dataset by identifying related terms in the clinical text to map them to the same term - an example given being mapping "cancer" and "malignancy" in different patients to the same clinical concept. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They were able to augment their text dataset by identifying related terms in the clinical text to map them to the same term - e.g., mapping "cancer" and "malignancy" in different patients to the same clinical concept. 
```

With this augmented and improved dataset, they were able to train and test a variety of text classification algorithms to identify rare disease patients within their corpus. 

> Finally, another possible tactic for rare disease researchers is to take a knowledge graphs (or an integration of several knowledge graphs) and apply neural network-based algorithms optimized for graph data, such as a graph convolutional neural network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, another possible tactic for rare disease researchers is to take a knowledge graph (or an integration of several knowledge graphs) and apply neural network-based algorithms optimized for graph data, such as a graph convolutional neural network.
```

Rao and colleagues [@doi:10.1186/s12920-018-0372-8] describe the construction of a KG using phenotype information (Human Phenotype Ontology) and rare disease information (Orphanet) and curated gene interaction/pathway data (Lit-BM-13, Wikipathways). 

> They then trained a spectral graph convolution neural network on this knowledge graph to identify and rank potentially causal genes for the Orphanet rare diseases, and were able to use this model to predict causal genes for a ground truth dataset of rare diseases with known causal genes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They then trained an algorithm (a spectral graph convolution neural network) on this knowledge graph to identify and rank potentially causal genes for the Orphanet rare diseases, and were able to use this model to predict causal genes for a ground truth dataset of rare diseases with known causal genes. 
```
Not sure if this is necessary but might help folks read thru this section w/o knowing what a spectral gcn is

> While several groups have published on the use of KGs to study rare disease already, we expect that the increasing availibility of multi-modal data resources will make this a popular area of research in the future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While several groups have already published on the use of KGs to study rare diseases, we expect that the growth of multi-modal datasets and methods to analyze KGs will make them a more popular and important tool in the application of ML in rare disease. 
```
